
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# Acoustic Glider Analysis Tools and Environment

A collection of tools to be used for piloting acoustic gliders,
processing glider positional and environmental data, and analyzing
glider-collected acoustic data for surveys of marine mammals.

This is the public release version and it is very much under
development.

<img
src="README_files/figure-gfm/fa-icon-ef3463a0984ba0e303f1b25b6e50a309.svg"
style="width:0.88em;height:1em" /> *Last Update: 13 Apr 2023*

## Background

These tools were initially developed for use with passive acoustic
glider surveys conducted by the OSU/NOAA CIMERS Bioacoustics Lab
<a href="https://bioacoustics.us"
data-index="_blank">bioacoustics.us</a> and as part of my PhD. Initial
development was for surveys using Seaglider platforms and either the
Wideband Intelligent Signal Processor and Recorder (WISPR) or PMAR-XL
recording systems.

Through NOAA’s Uncrewed Systems Initiative (UxS) we received funding to
develop and improve these tools into a more broadly applicable and
user-friendly tool box that could be used by all interested in
conducting glider-based passive acoustic surveys for marine mammals.

Please contact me if you have any questions, feedback, or suggestions!

selene \[dot\] fregosi \[at\] noaa.gov or
<a href="https://github.com/sfregosi/agate-public/issues/new"
target="_blank">Report an issue on GitHub</a>

## Dependencies

This package requires a few resources from Matlab File Exchange:

-   [SSH/SFTP/SCP For Matlab
    (v2)](https://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/35409-ssh-sftp-scp-for-matlab-v2)

## Disclaimer

<sub>The scientific results and conclusions, as well as any views or
opinions expressed herein, are those of the author(s) and do not
necessarily reflect the views of NOAA or the Department of
Commerce.</sub>

<sub>This repository is a scientific product and is not official
communication of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or
the United States Department of Commerce. All NOAA GitHub project code
is provided on an ‘as is’ basis and the user assumes responsibility for
its use. Any claims against the Department of Commerce or Department of
Commerce bureaus stemming from the use of this GitHub project will be
governed by all applicable Federal law. Any reference to specific
commercial products, processes, or services by service mark, trademark,
manufacturer, or otherwise, does not constitute or imply their
endorsement, recommendation or favoring by the Department of Commerce.
The Department of Commerce seal and logo, or the seal and logo of a DOC
bureau, shall not be used in any manner to imply endorsement of any
commercial product or activity by DOC or the United States
Government.</sub>

<sub>Software code created by U.S. Government employees is not subject
to copyright in the United States (17 U.S.C. §105). The United
States/Department of Commerce reserves all rights to seek and obtain
copyright protection in countries other than the United States for
Software authored in its entirety by the Department of Commerce. To this
end, the Department of Commerce hereby grants to Recipient a
royalty-free, nonexclusive license to use, copy, and create derivative
works of the Software outside of the United States.</sub>
